In this concept, we will learn about events in solidity.
When a caller sends a transaction to a contract,
the state of the contract changes.
Now, as a developer,
we can program our contract to emit events when its state changes.
We can write a DApp which stands for
a decentralized application to watch for these events.
Events are written using the keyword event.
Events do get stored on the network.
Now, events are a part of the ABI definition.
What that means is that anyone looking at the ABI of a contract can
tell which events the contract is emitting so a DApp can be written accordingly.
Events needs to be declared before they are emitted in a function.
So we always declare events then we write functions.
Event declaration looks like a function without a body and also ends in a semicolon.
Events are invoked just like you would normal functions.
Now, let's look at a smart contract example that implements events.
So, this is a sample smart contract that is emitting events.
In fact I've also included since you've learned quite a bit about solidity now.
So I've included strokes in it,
I've also included modifiers in it,
constructors, msg.value or the global variables.
I would definitely encourage you to get this file from
our GitHub page and look at it and play
around with it and then really get comfortable with how
all these things work and kind of bring everything altogether.
So, name of the contract.
With the word contract, starts with events contract, name of the contract.
Now we're creating if you remember,
now is a global variable that gives us the time in seconds since 1970.
Now we want this bidding to end in five days.
So we're kind of declaring
an argument here saying bidding ends and it says now in five days, okay?
Then we're creating a struct which is high bidder.
It has the address of the person who's bidding.
Of course the address comes from this part and then we
have the name of the bidder and then the bid that the person is placing on.
So that's a struct.
Now we are creating a variable of type high bidder.
So high bidder public high bidder, okay?
Now again, since this was a struct which is just a user-defined type,
we're supposed to create variables of this if you want to do anything with this.
We're creating a variable of type this and now this also is emitting two events,
high bid and a low bid event or a bid failed event, okay?
So if anyone bids higher and I'll show you in just a
second what it is but typically it's an event with the word event,
name of the event, arguments, and a semicolon.
So, kind of like a function but nobody ends with a semicolon and we have another event,
event keyword, bid failed,
arguments, and a semicolon.
Remember we have events always before a function so we have events initially
that we are declaring here in the file and then we have a modifier.
What this modifier is checking if it has not crossed the time.
So remember we set our bidding ends in five days so we're
checking if now is less than bidding ends, okay?
Continue. Else throw an exception.
So, if this time would be after five days,
after I deploy the contract,
then of course no one can bid on it and it's going to throw
an exception so that's a modifier and if you look an up function,
we're applying this modified time.
So, this is the name of the modifier coming from there and there are initial constructor.
When we start the bidding,
I want to kind of set up an initial value.
So we can start initial values here.
So we're starting the bidding at one ether saying this is a high bid, okay?
So, we're going to set our high bidder.
Remember, that's a struct type variable and I'm setting the bid initially to one ether.
Now in the function bid,
first of all look at this word payable.
Payable since ether should be coming along, okay?
So if you don't send either,
it's going to send you o or to give you o,
exception gives you an exception.
So, time, because we want it to end in five days from now.
So and then we're also giving the name of the bidder.
Whoever bids, wants to give their name initially who's
bidding and the value of course comes from this value.
So whatever comes along comes from this value and now we're checking for msg.value.
Remember MSG is a global variable.
You can get the value that's coming along using msg.value.
We're checking if this is higher than the initial bid that was set, okay?
So we're setting it to one ether initially.
We're checking if this value comes higher than that value. If, proceed.
If not, revert to an exception, okay?
You can also emit an event right there.
So if you have a front-end application watching for this,
you can see bid failed event has been issued,
or here high bid event has been given right there.
So, you can emit events just this way.
We have the events declared here but this is how you emit events,
word event or you can emit events just this way, okay,
with the word emit and then the name of the event that you're sending and then that one,
argument values right there.
So, in this function if you see we're checking the value and if
the high bid that the receiving value is greater than the bit that we already have,
then we're going to accept the bid and we
emit an event and at the same time let's store it?
How do we store it? Since it's a struct, right?
So, highBidder.bidder using the dot notation, msg.sender.
So message our sender,
the person who is sending the value.
So, his address is getting stored because we need to get
the address type and then the name of the bidder and then the value.
So, we're setting all these values bidder name and that.
So let's try now deploying this contract and I'm going show you.
In fact I'm also going show you how exception that thrown in.
So let's deploy this contract,
events contract and using this address,
let's deploy this contract and let's go.
So, if you see, we have the contract deployed.
So, for now, high bidder is going to be,
initially that was set, okay?
That's it. So there's nothing set as of now.
So now let's go bid on it.
So I'm going to go bid on it saying something,
I'll give Udacity, okay?
So we're bidding on it. Now, I'm not going to give a value here, okay? So let's see.
So remember if there is no value coming along,
it's going to throw us an exception and I'll show you how exceptions are thrown.
So let's look on this bottom screen.
So, if I send in a bid but no value is given,
no ether is being set along since remember this is a payable function.
It is expecting ether. It's going to throw an exception. So let's bid on it.
See, there's an exception.
Since it's reverted exception,
the transaction has been reverted to the initial states.
If you look on the bottom of the screen,
you'll see that the transaction has been reverted because it was wrong.
Now let's set a value that's lesser than one ether.
We're again going to get exception remember.
So this gives an exception inside the function if the value is lesser.
So let's send it a value of just one ether.
Remember that its expecting greater values.
Its expecting a value greater than one ether because it has to be greater, okay?
So let's send again and look at our screen.
So, let's go to the bottom of our screen.
I'm going to clear the screen so you guys can see it better.
So, I'm going to again send it a bid with that value and again it says reverted.
It doesn't go through because my bid is not as expected.
So now let's go again.
Now this time I'm actually going to send a value more than one.
So, if you see this is my denomination ether.
I can choose different denominations from there.
I'm going to choose 1.1 ether.
Now, I'm expecting this will go fine, right?
Because I'm higher than the initial bid that was one ether.
So now let's clear the screen so you all can see it better.
I'm going to send a value of 1.1,
now it goes through.
Perfect. So now if I get the high bidder information, it's changed.
My name came through,
my address came from this address that I'm sending the bid from
and it also gives the way of course everything is way on the screen.
It gives us a value of how much came along.
So, this is how you have everything coming along.
So this contract shows a bidding contract that's going
on and it has implemented structs in it,
events in it, modifiers in it,
constructors in it and also events in it.
So, definitely make sure that you look at this file.
This is how it emit events and
your front-end application can watch for this event and act accordingly.
So, get this code from our GitHub page and play around
with it and get comfortable with how all these things come together in solidity.